After Yahoo CEO Terry Semel announced he was stepping down, 
speculation was rife on whether his successors can put the lustre 
back on the fading internet star. Semel was ousted after a concerted 
campaign by shareholders aggrieved that the former Hollywood 
dealmaker drew a $71-million salary last year even as the company 
fell further behind Google in the race to dominate internet 
advertising. At the same time the company seemed to have missed 
out on the other hot trends of internet media, like the social 
networking sites of MySpace and Facebook and the hot video sites 
exemplified by YouTube. Now the question is what Yahoo can do 
to avoid becoming a new AOL or Excite - other portals that once 
promised to dominate new media but eventually fell by the 
wayside. Yahoo is also strong in Asia and focused on cementing a 
lead in the emerging markets for mobile phone content. On 
Tuesday, it signified that it intended to build on those platforms, 
announcing a new version of its Yahoo Go technology and content 
pacts with companies in the Philippines, India, South Korea, 
Malaysia, Indonesia and Taiwan. The people that Yahoo hopes 
have the answers are Jerry Yang, the Taiwan-born founder of the 
company, and Susan Decker, the mother of three who's been a 
rising star at the company since taking over as Chief Financial 
Officer in 2000. But they will have to perform an amazing 
corporate revival if they are to even keep Google in their sights, 
much less catch or overtake it. According to new figures released 
Tuesday by web-tracking firm Hitwise, Google now accounts for 
65 percent of all web searches, compared to Yahoo's 20 percent. 
Google also is constantly releasing new products designed to 
leverage its popularity to other products, and has the high-flying 
stock, cash reserves and cachet that allow it to attract the best 
workers in Silicon Valley and other high-tech regions. Yang, 38, 
who started Yahoo as a Stanford University undergraduate 12 
years ago, said he understood the challenge and is gearing up for a 
long fight with Google. "I'm ready to dig in and make sure we can 
take Yahoo to the next level," said Yang, a self-made billionaire. 
"I'm absolutely not interim. We want someone for the long haul." 
Many analysts advise him, however, to forget about ever catching 
Google and to settle for second place. Google has much larger cash 
reserves than Yahoo and so starting a spending war could quickly 
backfire. "Yahoo can't out-Google Google - and it's likely that 
nobody can," says Scott Karp of the website Publishing 2.0. "They 
should get out of Google's wake and look for less exploited 
territories. You don't catch up with a faster ship by steering the 
same course." So what will this new Yahoo look like? Farhad 
Manjoo, the tech columnist at salon.com, says that the company 
will have to start building web applications that excite the tech 
community. "If Yahoo wants to be relevant again, it's got to do 
things nobody else is doing," he says. "Building a better search 
advertising plan is important, but nobody goes to a web site for 
search ads." Plenty of other analysts believe that Yahoo is done as 
an independent company and needs to merge with another media 
firm. "It wouldn't surprise me to see Yahoo join forces with 
MySpace or another large portal like AOL," said Jordan Rohan, 
analyst with RBC Capital Markets. But not everyone was so 
gloomy about Yahoo's future. Dylan Tweeney, the editor of blogs 
on Wired said that the company has a number of compelling 
advantages over Google. "Yahoo still has more users than Google 
and each of its users spends twice as much time on the site as 
Google's users do," he said. Tweeney also argued that Yahoo's 
content and community sites were far better than Google's, while 
its personalized home pages were still the industry leader. "Among 
the vast majority of internet users, Yahoo is still the destination of 
choice," he said. "Clean up the management mess, restructure the 
ad network, and implement a better PR campaign, and Yahoo 
would start looking a lot better than it does today."
